Tree: allow explicit construction of array and map nodes with no arguments (#22946)
microsoft/FluidFramework: .changeset/lazy-onions-know.md

---
"fluid-framework": minor
"@fluidframework/tree": minor
---
---
"section": tree
---

> Array and Map nodes can now be explicitly constructed with undefined or no argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Array and Map nodes can now be explicitly constructed with undefined or no argument
```

> The constructor and create methods of Array and Map nodes now make the parameter optional, creating an empty map or array when it is not provided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The input parameter to the constructor and `create` methods of Array and Map nodes is now optional. When the optional parameter is omitted, an empty map or array will be created.
```

```typescript
class Schema extends schemaFactory.array("x", schemaFactory.number) {}

// Existing support
const _fromIterable: Schema = new Schema([]);

// New
const _fromUndefined: Schema = new Schema(undefined);
const _fromNothing: Schema = new Schema();
```

```typescript
class Schema extends schemaFactory.map("x", schemaFactory.number) {}

// Existing support
const _fromIterable: Schema = new Schema([]);
const _fromObject: Schema = new Schema({});

// New
const _fromUndefined: Schema = new Schema(undefined);
const _fromNothing: Schema = new Schema();
```

```typescript
const Schema = schemaFactory.array( schemaFactory.number);
type Schema = NodeFromSchema<typeof Schema>;

// Existing support
const _fromIterable: Schema = Schema.create([]);

// New
const _fromUndefined: Schema = Schema.create(undefined);
const _fromNothing: Schema = Schema.create();
```

```typescript
const Schema = schemaFactory.map(schemaFactory.number);
type Schema = NodeFromSchema<typeof Schema>;

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
